## Reading Assignment 5
#####Group Members:

- Zhe Yu (azhe825)[student ID: zyu9]

- Preetham Mahishi Srinath(preems)[student ID: pmahish]

- Shiqian Xu(jessexu20)[student ID: sxu11]

##### i. Reference to the Paper
Alshahwan, N.; Harman, M., "Automated web application testing using search based software engineering," in Automated Software Engineering (ASE), 2011 26th IEEE/ACM International Conference on , vol., no., pp.3-12, 6-10 Nov. 2011 doi: 10.1109/ASE.2011.6100082

#### ii. Most important keywords
#####ii.1 Automated web application testing 
Automation of testing a web based application by using various methods and techniques like generating test data, simulating user inputs and clicks, simulating user behavior. 
#####ii.2 Search based software testing
Search-Based Software Testing is the use of a meta-heuristic optimizing search technique, such as a Genetic Algorithm, to automate or partially automate a testing task, for example the automatic generation of test data.
#####ii.3 User simulation
In order to test the application has a whole, user interactions right from the landing page to all the clicks, inputs and navigation needs to be simulated. User simulation involves generating different kinds of user behavior along with the data and automating the interaction with the application.
#####ii.4 SWAT
'Search based Web Application Tester' is a tool developed by the authors which implements Static Analyzer, Instrumenter, Predicate Expander. The tool uses the transformed source code and the analysis data for input generation.

####iii. Brief notes on items
##### iii.1 Motivation
Lot of businesses , organizations and government heavily relay on web applications. There is a lot at stake for these web applications to function as expected. The technologies for web move towards a new paradigm every few years making automated testing a difficult problem.
##### iii.2 Related Work
There is an hill climbing algorithm based approach for constructing test sequences that maximize the diversity of a test suite by Marchetto and Tonella[2]. Halford introduced  to an algorithm  that  uses symbolic execution of the source code to group inputs into interface which is more suitable to languages like Java[3].
#####iii.3 Statistical tests
 The authors use Wilcoxon signed-rank test to find out weather there is a significant change in the branch coverage for the tests generated by DMV when compared to NMS and SCS. Wilcoxon test is a non-parametric statistical test which can be used to determine if the two set of samples are drawn from the same population or not. The test does not assume that the population is normally distributed.
#####iii.4  Sample models
The authors basically use three different models to generate the test scenarios and calculate the code coverage,fault results and performance of the execution. These three models are DMV (Dynamically Mined Value), NMS (Near Miss Seeding) and SCS (Static constant seeding)

##### References  
[1] McMinn, P., "Search-Based Software Testing: Past, Present and Future," in Software Testing, Verification and Validation Workshops (ICSTW), 2011 IEEE Fourth International Conference on , vol., no., pp.153-163, 21-25 March 2011
doi: 10.1109/ICSTW.2011.100
[2] Alessandro Marchetto and Paolo Tonella.  Search-based testing of Ajax
web applications.  In SSBSE ’09, pages 3–12, 2009.
[3] William Halfond, Saswat Anand, and Alessandro Orso. Precise interface
identification  to  improve  testing  and  analysis  of  web  applications.   In
ISSTA ’09, pages 285–296, 2009.

